Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
a set of syntax-induced literal designed to provide instruction to machine.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. jdk contains
jre: it provides requisities for bytecode to run through jvm
Interpreter: it decodes and executes  bytecode for jvm.
Compiler(javac): it converts bytecode into platform-independted code.
Archiver (jar): it supports java programming platform by providing libraries and applicaiton software.






What is IDE?
A. Integreated Development Environment



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, intelliJ, NetBeans



Explain the entire java life cycle.

Java source code converted into Bytecode through Java compiler and then the Bytecode converted into machine readable
instruciton through JVM.

what is class?

it is a template to instantiate object, such as cookiecutter (class) for cookie (object).
What is object?

object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method is the entry point of an appliction. psvm


Why main is static?
The keyword static allows main method ot be called without creating an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

java.lang.object is the superclass as it teh root or base level of class hierarchy.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?

classpath is an environment variable which is used by the java compiler to find the path of classes.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Abstract class may declare funtionality that subclasses can implement or override. Interface states functionality but
cannot implement it.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
we can not make an object from abstract and interface class since they are incomplete class. We can implement a subclass
of them.

what is Access Specifier?
it contorl the access to classes, mehtods and ohter memebrs.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.

Object oriented Programming. The feartures are
Encapsulation: the variable of a class will be hidden from other class and only be accessed using the methods of their
current class.
Abstraction: hiding peripheral details and showing relevant details thorough abstract class and interface.
polymorphism: ability of an object, variable or funciton to take on multiple forms.
Inheritence: one object acquires the properties and behaivor of parent object.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
a package is a colleciton of related classes. default package is java.lang.package

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Applicaiton programming interface. xml, jason, rest

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
java supports multiple inhertance thourgh interfaces but not thorugh classes. Because it leads to overridding of methods
when both extended class have same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A class may have more than one method with the same method name, however, arguments pass through them are different.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
exceptions are errors that happens in runtime. Try.. catch is one way to handle exception.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
if a member is declared static, it can be accessed before any object of its class are created, and without referece to
any object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final is used in a variable to indicate constant values. a methdo can be final wihch indicates that it cannot be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
final is a access modifier. Finally is a block to execute code regardless of exception handling. finalize is useed to
perform clean up processing jsut before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









