Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. we need data structure to enbale computer system to perform its task more efficiently as data structure store and retrieve
data from memory.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Insertion, deletion, searching, sorting, and merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler design, operating system, database Management System, Statistical analysis pacakge, numerical analysis, AI, simulation

what is an Array?
Data structure that contains group of elements.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is fixed length and arraylist is variable lenght and dynamic.

what is LinkedList?
A linear data structure where as elements, known as node, are linked using pointers and addresses.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
In linkedList the sequential elements are linked to its next elements wehreas in array, a set of similar data objects
are store in teh sequential memory location without being linked to each other.

what is queue?
its a collection of ordered elements to be store before processing them.

what is stack?
a stack is a last in first out data structure.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in first out and last in last out.

what is the order of complexity?
best case, worst case and average case

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Is defined by the minimum number of steps taken on any instance of size n (first or last element).

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
when element is in teh middle or not present in teh array.

what is tree in data structure?
Unlike array, linkedlist, queues, tree is a non-linear data structure.

what is graph in data structure?
a non linear data strucure consists of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized and hashmap is not. Therefore, HashMap is much faster and uses less memory.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS: Array, Network data model = Graph, Hierarchial data model = trees.

How HashMap works in java?
on Hashing principle; internally stores mapping in the form of map.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
it is an exception for Array. its been thrown when index is either negative, or greater than or equal to array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Four ways: Manually, array.copyOf(), System.arraycopy(), object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


